% of new ideas that lead to larger initiatives
Annual R&D budget as a percentage of annual sales
Customer success based on your products or services
Customers on new products vs. customers on old products
Deliberate innovation vs. accidental innovation
Effort spent on implementations vs. effort spent on concept development
Employee suggested projects success vs. failure
Extent of open innovation
Ideas / ideation campaigns
Ideas that make a profit vs. deas that sell
Ideas that reach concept design vs. delivered ideas
Ideas that sell vs. implemented ideas
Implemented designs vs. conceptual designs
Initiatives that include 'new' technology
Innovation funnel capacity
Innovation funnel half life
Innovation funnel loss
Innovation funnel profit
Innovation funnel rate of flow
Innovation funnel rate of input
Innovation funnel rate of output
Innovation projects portfolio
Leadership agreement on innovation strategy
Market share growth from new products & services
New customers from new products or services
New IP generated
New segments and sector entry from new products and services
Number of active projects
Number of corrective projects initiatied
Number of employee hours spent on independent research and ideation
Number of ideas delivering ROI
Number of ideas implemented
Number of ideas initiating projects
Number of ideas submitted by employees
Number of new ideas
Number of new ideas tried
Number of patents filed in the past year
number of problems identified
number of problems solved
Number of projects changing current way of doing business
Number of projects that use new technology
Patents created per year
Patents protecting market share
Patents submitted
Percentage of sales from products introduced in the past X year(s)
Problems not reappearing
Profit from new products & services
Profit from new products & services vs. profit from existing products & services
R&D
Rate of return on innovation investment
Rate of transfer of capital investment to new capabilities
Revenue driven by changes in technology, process
Revenue driven by projects that use new technology
Revenue from new products & services
Revenue generated from licensing patents
Revenue produced by innovation initiatives
Revenue protected by patents
Time employees spend developing ideas into proposals
Total R&D headcount or budget as a percentage of sales
Transformational change initiatives success vs. failure
Use of formal creativity tools & techniques
Use of formal idea management tools & techniques
Use of formal problem solving tools & techniques
Value of ideas