He has ice in his veins.
He has the memory of an elephant.
He hit the ball so hard that it landed on moon.
He is always on his mobile.
He knows everything about that.
He never stopped complaining about his workplace.
He runs like the wind!
He stared through my soul.
He talks a mile a minute.
He talks like a bullet train.
He's as skinny as a toothpick.
He's high as a kite.
His brain's the size of a pea.
I called you thousand times yesterday, but because you didn't pick up, I cancelled my plan.
I can't live without you.
I could smell freshly-baked apple pie from miles.
I died of embarrassment.
I got my math test back and it was dipped in blood.
I had to walk to the ends of the Earth to find it!
I have a ton of papers to grade.
I haven't seen them in ages.
I haven't seen you in ages!
I know every line of the novel; I've read it hundred times.
I love you to the moon and back.
I nearly died laughing.
I searched every corner of the city to find you.
I thought that lecture would never end.
I walked a million miles to get here.
I was dying of laughter.
I was scared to death.
I was so ashamed, the earth swallowed me up.
I'll be there in two seconds.
I'll die without you.
I'm dead tired; I can sleep for days.
I'm drowning in work.
I'm dying of hunger.
I'm dying of starvation, when's dinner?
I'm so excited, I could die!
I'm so hungry I could eat a horse.
I'm so tired I could sleep for a million years.
I'm thirsty as a camel.
I've seen that movie a thousand times.
I've told you a million times, pick up your dirty socks.
I've walked thousand miles to meet you.
It took forever to find you.
It's a jungle out there.
It's all fake news!
It's been raining for 40 days and 40 nights.
It's raining cats and dogs.
It's so hot here. I feel as if I'm in an oven.
It's so hot you could fry an egg on the sidewalk.
It's the best day of my life.
It's the worst day of my entire life!
My new shoes, little bit tight, are killing me.
My parents are going to kill me when they find out.
New York is the city that never sleeps.
On hearing the result, I was motionless as a corpse.
Our car cost us an arm and a leg.
Quick! I've million other things to do.
She can hear a pin drop a mile away.
She can pull off complex multiplications in a blink.
She eats like a bird.
She knocked it out of the park with that speech.
She never stops talking.
She walks as slow as a turtle.
She was so mad she was spitting bullets.
She was so mad that she was spitting fire.
She's as old as the hills.
She's as tall as a beanpole.
She's so sweet you could get a cavity from talking to her.
That book is a real doorstopper.
That documentary went on forever.
That runner's faster than the speed of lightning.
That turkey could feed an army!
That was the easiest quiz in the world.
The car cost me millions.
The meeting went on for what seemed like an eternity.
The new rules are taking forever to complete.
The teacher gave us a ton of homework.
The two hours I spent watching that movie were the worst two hours of my life.
The whole world is going to hell in a handbasket.
There are thousand reasons why our trains are rarely on time.
There can't be anything cuter than this cat.
This booze-free town is dry as a desert.
This is the best restaurant in the world.
This is the easiest exam in the world.
This is the funniest joke I've ever heard.
This work is going to take me years to finish.
We should be partners for the next seven lives.
We're meeting after ages.
We're never gonna get there!
When your mum sees what you've done, she will kill you.
You speak so loud, you can be heard from miles.
You've the memory of a wild elephant.
Your gaming laptop seems to be worth its weight in gold.
Your smelly socks can kill a rat.